I
you
just listen to that riddle and feel the
beat oh yes because wherever you're
going to make her you hear the sound of
reggae our calypso music here why add a
little bit of sunshine and you have the
perfect recipe for a grit Barbie with my
good friend here the funky slice the top
of your pumpkin and remove the seeds
season it well with some salt freshly
ground black pepper place the lid back
on top and brush it with our ladder wrap
it in foil
it will take about 45 minutes to an hour
to cook in the medium hot embers of your
body now for that spicy vegetable cart
heat a tablespoon of oil in a pan and
fry chopped onion for a few minutes
until my son son
two chopped chilies and fresh root
ginger a couple of cloves of garlic then
give it a stir yes
next add a couple of tablespoons of
curry powder mild medium hot who cares a
couple of beer leaf and a sprinkling of
clothes
for the veg I'm using red peppers Barbra
Jean and sweet potato but you could use
any combination you like let them sweat
for a couple of minutes then add a pint
our vegetable stock and cook the 15
minutes more giving it a quick stir
every now and then pour in a can of
coconut milk and some drained black eye
beans or peas as they call them here in
the Caribbean season to tears kaviar pot
and cook for 5 or 10 minutes to allow
them things to infuse finally some
callaloo of you can't get all of its
spinach will do it only take a couple of
minutes to will tone no longer but were
completely its own careful if your
pumpkin friend amber's unwrap the file
remove the link and fill er board with
spicy vegetable curry yes sir guaranteed
to impress
since prehistoric man we've been cooking
up a feast over the barbecue and
treating our taste buds to the
unbelievable flavors of Child real food
ah just look at that in Jamaica the
barbecue tradition goes back over 1,200
years to the islands original
inhabitants the Arabic engines they
would use hot chilies and spices and
garlic to rub into their meat and fish
and cook it slowly over aromatic wood on
top of the hot wooden great known as a
barbacoa why was it beautiful still is
today
you
and when it tastes so good why change it
today all over Jamaica that particularly
here in the sleepy town of Boston Bay on
the islands favorite dishes jerk pork is
cooked according to that age-old
tradition
at the ramshackle jerk stands which
lined the road the daily rituals involve
the preparation of whole pig which is
boned and rubbed all over with tongue
searing seasoning the main ingredient or
should I say the culprit the scotch
bonnet or habanero pepper is the hottest
in the world but more about that later
it's minced together with onions and
spring onions to make a fiery paste into
which goes a virtual telephone directory
of spices top of the list pimento or all
spices will know it which is the
essential ingredient for any old antique
jerk seasoning the meat is then laid
over a rack of wooden sticks and smoked
for several hours over an open fire
large wooden planks known as mao sticks
are laid over the meat as it cooks so to
keep it moist then removed every half an
hour to add more jerk seasoning
Hey hi guys alright alright buzzy yes
what's happening what everything is
alright good see look ya'll my god yes
much you ever find you yeah he's been
here today even up early yeah I've been
off early this morning about six o'clock
this is know what to get it all started
to get everything started it's a fuzzy
man how long you been doing this now
well being is her friend Elaine you
enjoy 29 vicki was a young man yeah one
video and who taught you to do it my
grandfather yeah yeah and how long and
he been doing is this guy grandfather
used to do for 29 years she's a long
time and how long did it take to cook
the pork several was the cook seven hold
on yeah so it's a very slow process very
slow process and so in that seven hours
you have to keep taking the cold and
keep them firing it up all the job we
always have to keep poor burning your
Hall of time but you've got those sticks
that go underneath there don't they burn
better come yeah what it burn we changed
the arteries of our next monitor to push
in one heart attack right to delete them
hoping going alright once the only only
got that and a solid 10 and burn and
change it pushing a fresh one I think
it's about ready for gonna go and try
yes alright calm
is it Oh Fozzie look at that hmm it's
juicy its moist it's peppery it's
delicious ha ha ha that's a secret you
know the best jerk pork wonderful you
don't wanna do it like that life's just
too short I've got a simple version of
jerk chicken that will make your mouth
go mmm and you can do it in a fraction
of the time now first you want to take
some chicken I've got some chicken
breast here no to the bone underneath
there which keeps it moist whilst it's
actually cooking on the barbecue and it
protects it from all those sort of
intense heat make three or four slits
down the chicken that allows the
marinade to penetrate right through to
the bone and flavors to meet beautifully
and I'm also using some chicken wings
here which are particularly nice for the
kids is so easy to handle they end up
nice and crispy so ideal pop those into
my pot there and now for the marinade
the same ingredient is still those
scotch bonnet peppers and I prize to
tell you a little bit about Chili's
didn't I so here goes you can also find
out this information in your supermarket
or indeed our Shore greengrocer he'll
tell you all about them first you've got
the Anaheim chili here which is Chris
mild chili a little bit sort of on the
sweet side so neither seeds inside that
are quite hot so you might say they look
a bit of a actually moving on you've got
the jalapeno chilies well they say
gelatina at home don't me and more of a
type of taste of them not too hot but
you definitely notice when they're in
your mouth and next is the K in Chile's
they come in a variety of colors that
the red the green and the yellow they're
slightly hotter than the jalapeno
chilies more of a taste of them and
finally we've got the good old scotch
bonnet peppers which is a more of you
might say a
type of taste that you know what I'd be
very very hot indeed especially in the
mouth also you have to pay particular
attention when you're preparing them my
mother used to get a little bit of oil
and rubbing to her hands before she was
sort of chopped up any other scotch
bonnet pepper them really rub it in and
protect the skin when you go to wash it
it comes off quite easily if you don't
do that it gets into the pores of your
skin and believe me even though you've
washed your hands later on you're going
to scratch the face in fact any parts of
your body and it could be very hot and
spicy you'd beat so do be careful now
back to my ingredients there's again the
two scotch bonnet peppers one whole
onion chopped a 2-inch piece of ginger
they're just peeled off the skin and
then chop that up I've got one teaspoon
of allspice now don't get that confused
with mix bike they're two totally
different things and a good sprig of
fresh thyme just take that pop that into
the blender avoids all the contact with
the things and everything ever so simple
if you've got one of these and as for
the time you just want us to push that
off with your knife sometimes it kind of
when it dries out it so binds on to the
little stalks there so just use your
sharp knife there and scrape that down
that's it just pick it up and put that
inside
and the other ingredients are 50 ml of a
dark soy sauce
and 50 ml of time vinegar very simple to
do sprigs of thyme in a bottle pour your
wine vinegar on top and just let all
interviews together then we just blitz
that together the idea of the soy salt
and the vinegar is not only that it's of
moist Lee's or your other ingredients it
tenderizes the meat that's the most
important thing that's beautiful and
then would take that and just pour that
on top of our chicken you pick up your
pallet knife and then work that into me
give you a me a good ole rub that's it
nice and hot spicy meat here boy I
that's it and turn it over don't be for
like to turn that over and really get
into those cuts another's cut from
Maidan chicken work that marinade right
down to the bone that's it remember you
want to do this for about 24 hours
marinating it maybe even 48 hours but no
longer than that otherwise it starts to
break down the meat and you'd lose all
that kind of Duty little tenderness that
you get with your meat and once you've
marinated your chicken there long enough
you pop them on top of your barbecue
look at those coals you can see that
love is love white sort of dust there
that's collected around that calls
that's the indication that it's ready to
cook to get to that stage once you've
lit your barbecue it's probably going to
take anywhere up sort of 1440 minutes
maybe even an hour until they kind of
died down like that and that would avoid
it sort of burning you know you don't
burn your meat or fish your chicken
breasts they're gonna take about 25 to
30 minutes to cook and the wings 15 to
20 minutes that's lovely beautiful check
ticking
there's no better way to start the day
than the blue mountains of Jamaica and
of course Blue Mountain coffee it is
sensational connoisseur's from all over
the world say that it's the finest and
it had all that richness that delicately
send the mellowness the beautiful
country Jamaica Ian Fleming the James
Bond novelist warning let
double-oh-seven drink anything less he
also said without the inspiration of
this beautiful country Jamaica you might
not have written any of his novels I
wonder if he would have been equally as
inspired if you tasted my pineapple
french toast it really is quite likely
two slices of bread here just plain
bread in here in Jamaica it's slightly
sweet so perhaps you might replace it
with a brioche or something like that
make sure you coat it really well with
lots of butter especially the edge to
seal it in afterwards answered
and then I've got one tin of pineapple
that I should crush down only pineapple
chunks or rings of pineapple just fork
down take out all the juice and spiced
up a little bit of mixed spice and a
couple teaspoons of sugar just give that
a really good mix there mix that in and
take your pineapple mixture and put it
on top of one buttered side of the bread
scrape that out a couple of really sort
of heat spoons they're really par that
up in the middle and then take the
buttered side and put that on top and
just push your fingers around the edge
there to create that licky I'll end
effect that lovely take a couple of eggs
to our bowl add some cream and just beat
that up give that a little bit of a
rhythm mm-hmm really we got a lot of
rhythm here in the islands I tell you
they love their music they love their
food and I'm not surprised because it's
surrounded by these beautiful
translucent order magnificent there yeah
now a little bit more mixed spice that's
it then you add a couple of teaspoons
are wrong make it tablespoons you could
use the pineapple juice that you've
extracted from the pineapple I think the
wrong kind of had something extra
special to it movie people love to make
movies in this island what about that
great Hollywood star Errol Flynn's ah
it's a lovely story that's told about
him he was cruising down in his yacht to
Port Antonio and he got shipped wreck
the old swashbuckler getting sick like
New Port Antonio lovely he arrived on
the island and he said hey this is where
I want to live in fact he proclaimed
that it was more beautiful than any of
his woman okay let's get our panel
Barbie there I'm sitting it on top of
nice hot coals there that's what you
want to become toast our sandwich nice
and quickly all right now just add and
not a butter to their just melt that
down to see there that's it she asked
beginning to foam at the edge there ok
take hold of your sandwich shop that
inside egg mixture just turn that over
there each what soaks up some that
lovely spicy romney egg and we're just
going to slide that in 20 just look all
that butter foaming up around the edge
that's really hot underneath there
that's what you want lovely you can see
all the phones just beginning to settle
down there now think it's about time to
turn over it's been on for about a
minute and half there to flip that up Oh
lovely crispy golden top there till
butters all melted into it what has the
clapping mmm the aroma is a bit special
Oh lovely and once all that foaming
butter has died down you've got a nice
golden french toast just slide that on
to your board isn't that beautiful Oh
dad sprinkle it a little bit more that
mix spice on top if you wanted to that
quite easily use a bit of cinnamon there
and of course and touch more sugar and
all that hot butter would just melt into
it beautiful and then
remember this breakfast only aid
slimming as part of a calorie controlled
diet somehow I don't think so ain't
there really is no end Jamaica's natural
beauty my friend Michelle like the other
locals thinks this is the most beautiful
sight of all the famous Frenchman's Cove
we sell these waters are absolutely
beautiful you know Ames me when people
think of Jamaica they think of white
sandy beaches but we have wonderful
rivers and in those rivers we have the
most amazing fresh water showing oh so
you can just flow them on the barbie oh
we have a really traditional way of
preparing them
Kingsley was really traditional about
this recipe is the use of what we call a
cold horses and we actually put what
Jamaicans call a Dutch pots directly on
top of the fire and because the part is
so having actually retains the moisture
of whatever you're cooking in it goes
with what we have here is about a pound
of shrimp and it's still in its natural
state and we're going to marinate this
and about a tablespoon of lemon juice 1
clove of garlic finely chopped
and what we call scotch bonnet pepper we
use one large pepper we know what about
things are done can I warn you these are
quite lethal yeah we know that we we
know and a teaspoon of salt to add even
and just a little bit of cracked black
pepper and we just stir that and a load
to marinate for about half an hour
hey could you just put the popgun top
with a fire certainly really this is so
easy you know when your coals first
start heating up their firing just place
your cast-iron pot on top and you can
copy this recipe to a teeny now we're
going to add about 2 cups of water and
just allow that bubble
once the water is boiling then we can
add our shrimp and we just allow that to
cook for about 10 minutes my 10 minutes
is quite a long time like that Michel
well this is the traditional way of
cooking peppered shrimp and trust me
it's really moist nothing and then we
add about 2 tablespoons of vinegar and
in another five minutes you're all done
ready to eat
now most Americans like to eat them with
the shell on I like to take a shell on
I told you this was gonna be a real
treat for you now Michelle that hot
pepper shrimp was super suck up
something which is wonderful we waited a
mile away these are Anaheim chilies very
very different I put these on here for
about five to ten minutes here just as
you can see they're just a blister the
skin slightly and then wonderful when
you stuff and you can stuff it with rice
all sorts of things but today under
stuffing with a nice goat cheese and
then what we're going to do take the
knife here and just peel back the skin
did talk a bit bitty they might have
just a little winter under attack if you
wanted to just to remove that skin
that's lovely just finishing that last
bit there
and then take the knife and just hold it
up there you take a new cert the night
but not all the way through and just run
it down ever so slowly there that's it
and open it up inside you can see all
those lovely hot seeds just take a spoon
and scoop them out they're actually
quite nutritious up hurry really oh you
learn something every year look it
that's it scoop that out and now I'm
going to take my soft goats cream cheese
there and just spread that inside be
quite generous with it
look a bit of pepper grey here son and I
think Assad that's it just in there like
that just rub the edges build that up a
little bit brush that with some olive
oil turn that a little bit more olive
oil on there like that all dear and pop
that on to the grill and just let that
warm from that looks so good in about
three or four minutes when it goes up
you just pop that into the mouth it will
taste it magnificent
your bow
flow
I love us hard here's a bit of trivia
for you which fruit had its own Museum
plus its own internet website has
inspired countless songs and a few
smutty jokes along the way to and comes
in its own biodegradable wrapper and
here in Jamaica on this plantation and
Loan they produce 25,000 tons every year
incredible and guess who eats them all
we do we obviously like a meal in a pill
and boy they taste so good on the barbie
the skin is the perfect barbecue
wrapping all they need is 10 or 15
minutes over a metre blown eat along
with some grilled pineapple wedges and
butter glaze you've got a pudding to die
for
cut your pineapple into four lengthways
and remove the hard core from each piece
leave the outer skin intact and cut each
wedge into chunks and dip each piece
into white sugar caster or icing sugar
and grill slowly for five to six minutes
on each side until the sugar caramelizes
the run butter glaze couldn't be easier
not four ounces of unsalted butter and
four ounces of demerara sugar and I'm
squeezing the juice of one lime take a
vanilla pod and using a sharp knife
split it in two would move the sea to
meet half and slide into your source now
the realm add a couple of tablespoons or
two or three or four for a flamboyant
finish slam bay in front of your guests
when the bananas are golden brown
beginning to use their juices and the
pineapple wedges are beautifully
caramelized removed from the barbecue
and serve with the rum butter glaze
a scoop of coconut ice cream and a
sprinkling of cinnamon a totally
tropical park
when you're gone
just don't wanna know
when you come to Jamaica everybody's got
their own idea of the perfect rum punch
but the best one of all is my mum's why
because it's my mum's first you take
some sugar syrup you boil down some
sugar and water together and let it cool
to you get a lovely therapy sugar syrup
next you take some lemon and lime juice
four limes and lemons Crashdown extract
that juice and lovely taste now a little
bit of a ghost or a bitters give that a
shake yes about a teaspoon if you don't
mind followed by some mango pulp if you
just get a tin of mangoes and you want
to split sit down you're on liquidiser
it'll be absolutely perfect you might
even be able to get some mango nectar
very nice indeed and next is the
strawberry syrup or as my mom would say
the strawberry syrup you'd have to shop
around to get this but you can't get it
you's a bit of grenadine ors Cassie's
that will give it that lovely tropical
color yeah Oh indeed and this is the
main ingredient of all you've guessed it
good old rum now about five or six
measures of that yes pointing remember
the more rum no more dancing was that
five or six make it seven yeah lovely
now you can let that settle and put it
into your fridge for maybe three or four
days especially if you're having a
barbecue you might want to get that
ready in advance but why don't you take
it out you top it up with some lemonade
yes
lemonade to give it a little bit of
phase and last but not least some
tropical fruit juice normally you get it
in cartons at home but here in the
Caribbean they do it in the can yes give
that a little bit of a swirl yes there
it goes and once all those flavors of
twirl together you take one glass fill
it with plenty of ice and then pour in
angley's mums rum punch punch lovely a
few slices of tropical fruit a straw and
sit back and adore oh it nice join me
next week in the great land of the
barbie where else ah stayin
you